Right?
Let's talk prototyping.
So now you may or may not do prototypes.
If you don't do prototypes, that's fine.
Not everybody does them.
If you're a smaller project,
then you might skip the prototyping stage.
But if you do do prototyping,
there is a lot of good opportunities for
testing here as well.
So, why bother testing with a prototype?
First of all,
a prototype is it's realistic.
A prototype much more closely
represents the actual user experience.
And so it's a great opportunity to get
realistic results about how a user will
interact with something.
Second thing, it's interactive.
A prototype provides an opportunity to
test where a user can actually interact
with something.
And I came across this recently where
we got mockups of pages in Figma,
but we were spending so long trying to
explain how something would behave.
That in the end I just said, well,
let's build a prototype of it.
Cuz this is just getting ridiculous,
trying to explain everything.
And it's also really good for
longer journeys.
So, for example, if you've got a kind of
a series of steps or a flow that a user
needs to go through, like a checkout
process or something like that,
where it's over multiple pages is
much better for that kind of thing.
So prototyping has it's
definitely has its place and
can be a really good
place to do some testing,
tends to be slightly bigger
projects often, but it depends.
So, what are our testing options here?
Well, one option is
facilitated usability testing.
So in this, you basically sit down with
the user either in person or remotely and
you ask them to complete series of tasks,
select a product that you liked
the look of and buy it, right classic
e-commerce checkout kind of thing.
And as they're going through it,
they'll go quiet.
They won't say anything and
you're so what are you thinking?
Well, they're pause at a certain point and
you'll go, why are you pausing there or
they're pull a face and
you say what was that face about and
things like that in order to encourage
them to express what's going on.
The other alternative is
unfacilitated testing,
where participants are given the task,
but there's no moderator to prompt them.
So they're encouraged to think out loud
during the interaction and it's recorded,
so that you can watch it back afterwards.
So both methods are perfectly valid, but
they've got their pros and cons, right?
So unfacilitated testing,
where you just give them a link,
they're recorded while they do the tasks,
but you're not there watching them.
It's easier to run, right?
You can do it with more people because
you don't have to sit in on each of
the sections, intends to encourage more
natural behavior because there's not
someone leaning over their shoulder
saying, why did you do that?
And which is a bit weird.
And you tend to get faster results, right?
Because you can you don't have to sit
around waiting range for people and all
of that kind of stuff, you just throw out
the URL and they get results back quick.
So that kind of testing is really good for
what I call,
is it working, testing, right?
Do people understand it?
Can they use it?
Can they complete the tasks, right?
Great for that kind of stuff.
While facilitated testing, when you're
sitting with them interacting with them,
it's great because it's a more
guided interaction, right?
So you can prompt them, especially if the
prototype is a bit junky, [LAUGH] right?
If there's bits that don't
really work very well,
it's quite nice to have somebody
there that goes, yeah, that's broken.
Don't worry about about it,
go back to the previous page,
that kind of thing it's useful for.
It's more adaptable.
So, in other words, you can as something's
going on, if they go and do something
strange, you can kind of go with them and
and ask them why they're doing that and
what they're thinking is and
kind of adapt to whatever they're doing.
It's easier to get clarification cuz
sometimes people will say something out
loud and you think, well,
what did they mean by that?
So it's good for that kind of thing.
And it's great because it's easier cuz
you're sitting there looking at them
throughout it, you tend to pick up their
nonverbal cues better than watching
a video back afterwards.
I don't know why, but
it seems to be the case.
So I consider this better for the,
why isn't this working, testing,
[LAUGH] right?
So, it's a subtle difference, but
unfacilitated testing will show you
whether something is working or not.
Facilitated testing will show
you why it's not working,
will explain what's going on clearer,
if that makes sense.
So that's your choice,
facilitated, unfacilitated.
But then there's also remote testing,
right?
Do I bring in the people and sit them in
a room or me go out to them physically or
do we just do it all online via Zoom or
some other option?
Remote testing is great cuz you tend to
get a broader reach and diversity, right?
Because you're not stuck with
geographic locations as a problem.
It's also more cost-effective
because you don't have travel and
you don't have to pay for
them to come here and all the rest of it.
More efficient for
your scheduling or scheduling.
What is it you say here,
well, one or the other one.
>> Scheduling.
>> Scheduling, anyway.
And also it's highly scalable as well.
You could do a lot of
different people quite easily.
The downside of remote testing
is you can have technical issues
where somebody gets stuck
trying to use the kit and
you're not there to help them, and
you see you can have problems like that.
You get limited control
over your test environment,
which sometimes can be a good thing and
sometimes it can be a bad thing.
So what I mean by that is sometimes
say you're doing a mobile testing, for
example, they might have some obscure
phone that most people won't have.
And so you don't have control over that,
and that's kind of sucks.
But on the other hand is kind
of more realistic if you don't
have control of them.
I did a great usability testing once where
the woman was doing a whole usability
testing with a toddler sitting on her lap,
right,
which is what happens in the real world.
So it was kind of quite
interesting in a way.
Non-verbal cues are harder
to pick up when it's remote.
And there are much more examples of
potential distractions like toddlers and
cats and doorbells going and
things like that.
So use pros and cons on it.
Most of the time these days I do
facilitated remote usability testing.
It's quicker, it's faster,
I can get more people, I'm lazy.
It just depends on the project and
it depends on the budget and
that kind of stuff.
Just by contrast, in-person testing,
you get richer qualitative feedback.
So you get to meet the person and see the
person, and even what they're wearing and
what shoes they've got on, and it all
builds up a picture of who somebody is.
The best is if you go to their place,
their house.
Then also there's in-person testing, you
can control the environment if they come
to you, you can have everything set up,
although that can backfire on you as well.
We once did a testing, we had a big iMac
there with the mouse to the keyboard all
set up for them to do the testing, and we
were testing old people and none of them
knew how to use a mouse because they'd
all been given laptops with trackpads.
And so that kind of screwed the whole
day's testing cuz we weren't letting them
use their own equipment.
Anyway, that's another story.
You get better engagement through
in-person testing, which I love.
You kind of can relax people and
get them on board a bit more,
you can get immediate clarification,
but it costs more.
There are geographic limitations,
there are scheduling challenges,
there are scalability issues.
I would love to do in-person
usability testing more than I do,
it just doesn't happen a lot of the time.
So either way,
whatever kind of testing you do,
it's more important what you're testing,
right?
You've got a prototype,
you wanna do some usability testing, and
usability testing is normally the best
way to go on a prototype stage.
What are you trying to look for?
Well, you're trying to establish how
easy it is for users to navigate and
understand the prototype.
So it's about easy to use,
kind of obvious really, isn't it?
I'm gonna do usability testing and
see if it's easy to use.
Navigation is the other big one.
Is prototype easy to navigate?
Are they logical and
consistently placed to people?
Are they where people expect them to be?
Then there's learnability stuff, how fast
do new users understand the prototype and
pick it up?
Sometimes if you find yourself having
to clarify a lot of things, or
they sit there kind of looking at it, or
you know that things are not going well.
Then there's efficiency,
how efficiently tasks are to complete.
This is particularly important if you're
building an app that people use regularly.
So, for example, at the moment I'm working
with an insurance company where you've
got underwriters assessing hundreds and
hundreds of assurance claims.
And they're going through these
one after another, so obviously,
it's really important that
they can do that quickly and
efficiently without too many clicks and
stuff.
And they let if you haven't got it right,
I can tell you that.
There is satisfaction.
How likely are users to use
the prototype if it was a real product.
You can actually ask them that.
You can look at things like accessibility
as well with screen readers,
keyboard navigation, different
mobile devices is another good one.
It's all kinds of different things there.
Content comprehensibility.
Is that a word?
Is word, isn't it?
Is the text content easy to read and
to understand,
that's another great opportunity
to do that with prototyping.
Then there's things like I spend a lot
of time testing conversion paths, so
I do a lot of conversion
rate optimization work.
So checkout processes,
contact forms, that kind of thing.
They're great.
When you get a user interacting,
like with data entry or
something like that,
that's when things often go wrong.
So they're always a really
good point to look at.
And indeed, any interactivity,
how error handling is often
a really interesting one.
When people make mistakes in an interface,
how the interface adapts to that.
So there's loads of different
things you can test.
What you test is largely what you're
worried about, is what it boils down to.
What are the bits of the interface
that you're worried about?
And again, don't run usability
testing just for the sake of it.
Run it when you've got questions and
concerns, that's the moment to do it.
When you think, I'm a little bit unsure
about this, or someone else is unsure
about it, that's when you wanna jump
in and do some usability testing.
In terms of who to test with,
again we're back to that,
that as long as they're competent and
have got the same kind of ability spectrum
as your end user, anybody will do.
So usability testing,
friends and family again,
you can see why they get
sick of being asked.
My friends and
family have less friends now because of
the result of this, but anyway.
The other thing you might wanna think
about is if you do big projects that last
months of developing something that's
quite complicated and quite big,
you might wanna think about the number
of rounds of testing that you do?
So, one of the big things,
I mentioned this book earlier,
Steve Cruise book
Rocket Surgery Made Easy.
One thing he proposes is, look, if you're
working on long term projects where
you're developing a digital service over
the long term, then you might wanna have
like a day a month or morning a month,
only needs to be a morning where you tests
with three people and the same, the third
Thursday every month or whatever.
You just test with three people
that Thursday every month,
whatever the questions are,
whatever the concerns are that month,
you get in a routine of doing it.
And he actually suggests that you
open that up to anybody to watch and
that you test three people in the morning,
everybody watches and then everybody
sits down at lunch and says, well,
what are we gonna do about these problems?
And you bribe them to come to the whole
thing with pizza at lunch, right?
I mean you guys all turned up just for
the for the chipotle so
it works internally,
pizza can get you everything.
So, yeah, usability testing is great,
it's a really good tool.
The remote unfacilitated
is lighter weight.
If I could do a little bit more than
remote unfacilitated it would be remote
facilitated, it's the in-person
thing that's the real luxury, right?
If you ever get one opportunity in
your life to go to someone's home and
test with them, do it.
It's frigging awesome.
You'll love it, yeah.
>> Yeah, you're ringing a story with me.
Before remote thing was even a thing,
[COUGH] and the first time
I wrote a fun end application was
with the Ramsay County Sheriff's.
>> Right.
>> Department,
I actually wrote the DUI
logging system for the squads.
>> Okay.
>> And I would ride with the deputies,
and I did this too late.
So I wrote the application, the front end,
but some of them were were complaining
because they couldn't,
their fingers were so thick.
>> Yeah.
>> That they couldn't click whether it was
a DUI stop or
was it like a warning of some sort?
>> Yeah.
>> I got that feedback late.
>> I made my drop down o a bit too skinny.
>> Yeah.
>> But it's having that opportunity
to work with someone is so
impactful in their environment.
>> It really is.
>> Yeah.
>> I mean, the best one I ever had was I
went to, again, I was working
with old people at this stage.
And so I was visiting,
I went to them because a lot of them had
mobility issues and stuff like that.
And I went to this one lady's house and
she opened the front door and
this stream of cats came out.
She was really a stereotypical cat lady.
And every surface on the whole of our
house was covered with cat ornaments,
like nicknacks, well,
we call them nicknacks ornaments.
And we sat down at a computer and
it was like, we're cranking up desktop
computer that took half an hour to get,
eventually this thing got going.
She sits down to do the usability testing,
but
immediately a cat jumps on her lap so
she's got a cat on the whole time.
And then the mouse, she had so
much clutter on her desk that she had like
this amount of space to move them out.
So she was going like this the whole time,
picking it up and moving it.
And the real killer moment was I said,
okay,
select a product that you like from
the website and add it to your basket.
So she picks a product and
adds it to a basket.
And I was about to say the words,
now go to your basket and check out.
And I thought she ain't gonna be able to
find the basket, because she had posted
notes all around the monitor that was
covering up where the shopping basket was.
I mean, how you design for
that, I don't know.
[LAUGH] But it was so enlightening to
actually go and meet these people,
it's actually worth it, but you just can't
justify doing it all the time or at least
not on the kind of projects I get to work
on, and I get to work with big clients.
So you'd think if anybody could do it, it
would be my kind of clients, but they go.